Azul  


Set-Up: 

 Everyone takes a player board and places it color side face -up.  (As a variant, use the other side of the board 
which allows for any color to occupy a spot on the wall as long as no color in a vertical column repeats itself.)  

 Everyone p laces a  black cube scoring marker on the “0” space at the top of the ir board s. 

 Place 5/7/9 factory coasters in a circle based on 2/3/4 players.   Put all 100 tiles in the cloth bag and mix.  

 Choose a “start player” who randomly places 4 tiles onto each factory coaster .  (There are 20 tiles of each color) .   

 If the bag runs out  when supplying the factories , refill the bag from the tiles in the box lid.  


Game Flow : 

 Azul is played over several rounds (usually 5 -7) until 1 + players have completed  at least 1 horizontal row  on their 
“wall”  (right side of their board .)  When this happens, finish the current round and go to end game . 

 During a round, the Start player will take the first action, and play will go clockwise u ntil there are no actions 
left.  Passing is not allowed!  Once there are n o more tiles to take, all players score simu ltaneously for the given 
round.  Before the round starts, The 1st player places the 1st player token in the center area, t hen takes a  turn.   

 On a turn, a player may either … 
o take all tiles of 1 color from 1 facto ry coaster (moving the rest of the tiles from that factory coaster into the 
center area)              OR 
o take all tiles of 1 color from the center area (all other colors stay put).  If the 1st player token is still in the 
center, place this token in the left -most s pot at the bottom of the player board in the “floor” area.  

 After the player has selected 1 of the 2 options above, they must now place these tiles in one of the 5 “pattern 
lines” on the left side of the player board (above the “floor.” ) 

 To do this, choose 1 h orizontal line (again, left side of player board), and place all chosen tiles in this line from 
right to left.  You may add tiles to a line that currently has tiles  as long as the colors match .  If you fill up the 
Pattern line and have extra tiles  in hand , these tiles must “drop do wn to the floor” by filling in the spaces at the 
bottom of the player board from left to right (same area as where the 1st player marker will  go when taken).    

 If the “wall”  on the right side of your player board has a tile  that is the same color as the t iles you just selec ted, 
you may not choose the sam e Pattern line (row)  because you have this tile already!   You must choose another 
Pattern line.  Essentia lly if a yel low tile is on your Wall (grid),  you can't start a yellow line in the same row 
because you  did yellow already and can ’t place another yellow tile in this row . 

 Any tile that you can't place  or do not  want to place  in a Pattern line , must “drop to the floor” area.  


Scoring : 

 Once all the tiles are taken and placed, all players move and score tiles simultaneously.  

 Evaluating the “P attern” lines on the left side of your player board  is all done the same way.  S tart with line 1.  If 
this line is comp lete (all spaces filled), then move the right most tile to the matching “wall” (grid) space.  (It 
should be empty).   The first line is  easy because there is only 1 tile, so only 1 tile will complete it and thus that 1 
tile will be moved over, however, for  the rest of the rows, it will be slightly different.  

 Before you evaluate  rows 2 -5, you need to score row 1 (you score points after each row where you moved a tile 
over .)  To score, look at the tile you just pla ced, and count ALL tiles horizontally linked to this tile including itself , 
and then count ALL tiles vertically linked to  this tile, including itself .  Score these points at the top of your player 
board now!  If a tile is by itself, it is only worth 1 point (not 2 like you might think).  For example, if you place a 
tile next to a tile on its left and a tile below it, you will sc ore 4 points (itself + left tile, and itself  + below tile) .   

 Now evaluate/score for  “Pattern lines” 2-5… see if the row is complete, if it is, move the right most tile into your 
“wall” and discard the rest of the tiles into the box lid.   Score this tile as just described above.   

 If a row is NOT complete, leave the tiles alone.   Nothing will score for this line.  

 After evaluating  the rows , check your “floor ” and subtract  points for items there.  Remove tiles to the box lid.   If 
you have the  1st player marker, keep it for now, but it will go in the center area befo re you kick off next round . 

 If 1+ player(s) have  completed at least 1 horizontal row, the game now ends, otherwise, start a new round.  


End Game :  (Score additional points based on tiles on your “wall ” area)  

 Score 2 points for each complete horizontal  row and 7 points for each completed verti cal column.  

 Score 10 points for each color that you managed to place all 5 tiles on your wall.  

 Most points is the winner.  Ties broken by most horizontal  lines.  